
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- Build rd-file with devtools::build_readme() -->

# inlami <a href='https://github.com/emmaSkarstein/inlami'><img src='man/figures/inlami_transparent.png' align="right" height="131.5" /></a>

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/emmaSkarstein/inlami/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/emmaSkarstein/inlami/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

Fitting measurement error models and missing data imputation models in
INLA is not trivial, and requires several workarounds in order to fit
the model. At the same time, a Bayesian hierarchical framework is very
attractive for modeling these types of data, since the hierarchical
model structure alllows us to describe how the data were collected, and
any errors they may have, through the model specification. By supplying
informative priors, we may be able to adjust for biases due to these
errors, and propagate any uncertainty they cause. Until recently, it has
been complicated to implement these kinds of models in R-INLA. This
package provides a helpful interface that makes measurement error and
missing data modelling in R-INLA much more feasible.

## Installation

You can install the development version of inlami from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("emmaSkarstein/inlami")
```

## When can I use this package?

This package is designed for fitting models where you have one covariate
that has classical measurement error, Berkson measurement error, missing
observations, or any combination of these three. That could mean that
you only have missing data, and if so this package can do missing data
imputation.

The model itself must be of the class of models that is possible to fit
with R-INLA. That means that it can be used for most common regression
types, like linear regression and logistic regression, and you can
include as many error free covariates as needed. You can also include
random effects, the same way as you would normally include such effects
in R-INLA.

The package is unfortunately not able to adjust for measurement error or
missingness in multiple covariates, though this could be implemented, it
just hasnâ€™t yet. Feel free to get in touch if that is functionality that
would be of interest for your research!

## How can I use this package?

\[Some examples will be included here\]
